.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
    Thanks for submitting a Pull Request (PR) to this project.
    Your contribution to this project is greatly appreciated!

    Please prefix the PR title with the resource name,
    e.g. 'ResourceName: My short description'.
    If this is a breaking change, then also prefix the PR title
    with 'BREAKING CHANGE:',
    e.g. 'BREAKING CHANGE: ResourceName: My short description'.

    You may remove this comment block, and the other comment blocks, but please
    keep the headers and the task list.
-->
#### Pull Request (PR) description
<!--
    Replace this comment block with a description of your PR.
-->

#### This Pull Request (PR) fixes the following issues
<!--
    If this PR does not fix an open issue, replace this comment block with None.
    If this PR resolves one or more open issues, replace this comment block with
    a list the issues using a GitHub closing keyword, e.g.:
    - Fixes #123
    - Fixes #124
-->

#### Task list
<!--
    To aid community reviewers in reviewing and merging your PR, please take
    the time to run through the below checklist and make sure your PR has
    everything updated as required.

    Change to [x] for each task in the task list that applies to your PR.
    For those task that don't apply to you PR, leave those as is.
-->
- [ ] Added an entry under the Unreleased section of the change log in the CHANGELOG.md.
      Entry should say what was changed, and how that affects users (if applicable).
- [ ] Resource documentation added/updated in README.md.
- [ ] Resource parameter descriptions added/updated in README.md, schema.mof
      and comment-based help.
- [ ] Comment-based help added/updated.
- [ ] Localization strings added/updated in all localization files as appropriate.
- [ ] Examples appropriately added/updated.
- [ ] Unit tests added/updated. See [DSC Resource Testing Guidelines](https://github.com/PowerShell/DscResources/blob/master/TestsGuidelines.md).
- [ ] Integration tests added/updated (where possible). See [DSC Resource Testing Guidelines](https://github.com/PowerShell/DscResources/blob/master/TestsGuidelines.md).
- [ ] New/changed code adheres to [DSC Resource Style Guidelines](https://github.com/PowerShell/DscResources/blob/master/StyleGuidelines.md) and [Best Practices](https://github.com/PowerShell/DscResources/blob/master/BestPractices.md).

Commit message:

xHyper-V: Update repository for continuous delivery (#183)
- xHyper-V
  - Added automatic release with a new CI pipeline (issue #182).
  - Added stubs for the powershell module Hyper-V that are used for
    all unit tests.
  - The resource will not be tested for Windows Server 2008 R2 since
    that operating system has reach end-of-life.
- xVMSwitch
  - Removed the unit test that simulated functionality on Windows Server 2008 R2
    since that operating system has reach end-of-life. No functionality was
    removed from the resource, but in a future release the resource might stop
    working for Windows Server 2008 R2.
  - Correctly return the state as `$true` or `$false` depending on the
    `Ensure` property when the switch does not exist.

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
    Thanks for submitting a Pull Request (PR) to this project.
    Your contribution to this project is greatly appreciated!

    Please prefix the PR title with the resource name,
    e.g. 'ResourceName: My short description'.
    If this is a breaking change, then also prefix the PR title
    with 'BREAKING CHANGE:',
    e.g. 'BREAKING CHANGE: ResourceName: My short description'.

    You may remove this comment block, and the other comment blocks, but please
    keep the headers and the task list.
-->
#### Pull Request (PR) description
<!--
    Replace this comment block with a description of your PR.
    Also, make sure you have updated the CHANGELOG.md, see the
    task list below. An entry in the CHANGELOG.md is mandatory
    for all PRs.
-->

#### This Pull Request (PR) fixes the following issues
<!--
    If this PR does not fix an open issue, replace this comment block with None.
    If this PR resolves one or more open issues, replace this comment block with
    a list of the issues using a GitHub closing keyword, e.g.:

- Fixes #123
- Fixes #124
-->

#### Task list
<!--
    To aid community reviewers in reviewing and merging your PR, please take
    the time to run through the below checklist and make sure your PR has
    everything updated as required.

    Change to [x] for each task in the task list that applies to your PR.
    For those task that don't apply to you PR, leave those as is.
-->
- [ ] Added an entry to the change log under the Unreleased section of the
      file CHANGELOG.md. Entry should say what was changed and how that
      affects users (if applicable), and reference the issue being resolved
      (if applicable).
- [ ] Resource documentation added/updated in README.md.
- [ ] Resource parameter descriptions added/updated in README.md, schema.mof
      and comment-based help.
- [ ] Comment-based help added/updated.
- [ ] Localization strings added/updated in all localization files as appropriate.
- [ ] Examples appropriately added/updated.
- [ ] Unit tests added/updated. See [DSC Community Testing Guidelines](https://dsccommunity.org/guidelines/testing-guidelines).
- [ ] Integration tests added/updated (where possible). See [DSC Community Testing Guidelines](https://dsccommunity.org/guidelines/testing-guidelines).
- [ ] New/changed code adheres to [DSC Community Style Guidelines](https://dsccommunity.org/styleguidelines).
